documentation/source/generated.rst, before:

********************
Generated Code Guide
********************

Guide to the generated Dylan code and how it maps from the :file:`.proto` file
Interface Definition Language (IDL).


Notes to be Integrated into Main Docs
=====================================

**TODO TODO TODO**

* It is possible for the name of a protobuf field and nested message or enum
  type to differ only by case. Since Dylan is not case sensitive this could
  cause a conflict. This isn't a problem, however, due to the generated message
  and enum types using Dylan's ``<class>`` naming convention.


Naming
======

Protocol buffer names are mapped to Dylan naming conventions following these
rules:

* CamelCase is converted to lowercase-with-hyphens.
* snake_case is converted to lowercase-with-hyphens.
* Message and enum names are surrounded by angle brackets. ``message Foo``
  becomes ``class <foo>``. Nested ``message Bar`` becomes ``<foo-bar>``.
* In package names, dot and underscore are converted to hyphen to make the
  Dylan module name, unless overridden by an option.


Usage
=====

Assume the following protocol buffer definitions in a file named
:file:`abc.proto`.

.. code-block:: protobuf

   package abc;

   syntax proto3;

   message Person {
     string name = 1;
     int32 id = 2;

     message Address {
       string email = 1;
     }

     Address address = 3

     enum HairColor {
       option allow_alias = true;
       UNKNOWN = 0;
       BLACK = 1;
       black = 1;  // reminder to self that this is valid
       BLONDE = 2;
       blonde = 2;
     }
     HairColor hair_color = 4 [default = BLACK];
   }

Given the above :file:`abc.proto` file, at least two Dylan files are generated:

1.  :file:`abc-module.dylan`, the module definition file with appropriate
    exports.

.. code-block:: dylan

   Module: dylan-user

   define module abc
     use dylan;
     use protocol-buffers, prefix: "pb/";
     use uncommon-dylan, import: { enum-definer };
     export
       <person>,

       person-name,
       person-name-setter,
       clear-person-name,

       person-id,
       person-id-setter,
       clear-person-id,

       person-address,
       person-address-setter,
       clear-person-address,

       person-hair-color,
       person-hair-color-setter,
       clear-person-hair-color,

       <person-address>,
       person-address-email,
       person-address-email-setter,
       clear-person-address-email,

       // TODO: enums aren't finished yet
       <person-hair-color>,
       $person-hair-color-unknown,
       $person-hair-color-black,
       $person-hair-color-blonde;
   end module;

2.  :file:`abc.dylan`, the main generated code.

.. code-block:: dylan

   Module: abc

   define primary class <person> (pb/<message>)
     slot person-name :: <string>,
       init-keyword: name:,
       init-value: "";
     slot person-id :: <int32>,
       init-keyword: id:
       init-value: 0;
     slot person-address :: false-or(<person-address>),
       init-keyword: address:,
       init-value: #f;
     slot person-hair-color :: <person-hair-color>
       init-keyword: hair-color:,
       init-value: $person-hair-color-black;
   end class;

   define primary class <person-address> (pb/<message>)
     slot person-address-email :: <string>,
       init-keyword: email:,
       init-value: "";
   end class;

   define enum <person-hair-color> ()
     $person-hair-color-unknown :: <int32> = 0;
     $person-hair-color-black   :: <int32> = 1;
     $person-hair-color-blonde  :: <int32> = 2;
   end;

Create protobuf objects by passing initargs to :drm:`make` or by using setter
methods.

.. code-block:: dylan

   let p = make(<person>,
                name: "John Doe",
                id: 123,
                address: make(<person-address>, email: "a@b"));

or

.. code-block:: dylan

   let a = make(<person-address>);
   a.person-address-email := "a@b";

   let p = make(<person>);
   p.person-name := "John Doe";
   p.person-id := 123;
   p.person-address := a;

Note that for the inner message "Address", the class name is
``<person-address>``, reflecting the nesting of the messages. This is necessary
to avoid conflicting with a top-level message named "Address".

Similarly, the slot getter/setter for the inner class must be prefixed with the
name of the outer class to reduce the possibility of name conflicts, so we have
``a.person-address-email``.

But notice that when passing initargs there is no possibility of conflict so
simply ``email:`` will work. This is because protobuf messages are Plain Old Data
objects and do not inherit from other message types.

To write/read a ``Person`` to/from a byte buffer or binary stream:

.. code-block:: dylan

   let person = decode(<person>, buffer-or-stream);
   let nbytes = encode(person, buffer-or-stream);

To write/read a ``Person`` to/from a Text Format stream:

.. code-block:: dylan

   let person = decode-text-format(<person>, buffer-or-stream);
   let nbytes = encode-text-format(person, stream);

Commit message:

code gen: if no package decl, use file name as module name

documentation/source/generated.rst, after:

********************
Generated Code Guide
********************

Guide to the generated Dylan code and how it maps from the :file:`.proto` file
Interface Definition Language (IDL).


Notes to be Integrated into Main Docs
=====================================

**TODO TODO TODO**

* It is possible for the name of a protobuf field and nested message or enum
  type to differ only by case. Since Dylan is not case sensitive this could
  cause a conflict. This isn't a problem, however, due to the generated message
  and enum types using Dylan's ``<class>`` naming convention.


Naming
======

Protocol buffer names are mapped to Dylan naming conventions following these
rules:

* CamelCase is converted to lowercase-with-hyphens.
* snake_case is converted to lowercase-with-hyphens.
* Message and enum names are surrounded by angle brackets. ``message Foo``
  becomes ``class <foo>``. Nested ``message Bar`` becomes ``<foo-bar>``.
* In package names, dot and underscore are converted to hyphen to make the
  Dylan module name, unless overridden by an option. If no package name is
  provided in the .proto file, the Dylan module name is the same as the file
  name, without the ``.proto`` extension.

Usage
=====

Assume the following protocol buffer definitions in a file named
:file:`abc.proto`.

.. code-block:: protobuf

   package abc;

   syntax proto3;

   message Person {
     string name = 1;
     int32 id = 2;

     message Address {
       string email = 1;
     }

     Address address = 3

     enum HairColor {
       option allow_alias = true;
       UNKNOWN = 0;
       BLACK = 1;
       black = 1;  // reminder to self that this is valid
       BLONDE = 2;
       blonde = 2;
     }
     HairColor hair_color = 4 [default = BLACK];
   }

Given the above :file:`abc.proto` file, at least two Dylan files are generated:

1.  :file:`abc-module.dylan`, the module definition file with appropriate
    exports.

.. code-block:: dylan

   Module: dylan-user

   define module abc
     use dylan;
     use protocol-buffers, prefix: "pb/";
     use uncommon-dylan, import: { enum-definer };
     export
       <person>,

       person-name,
       person-name-setter,
       clear-person-name,

       person-id,
       person-id-setter,
       clear-person-id,

       person-address,
       person-address-setter,
       clear-person-address,

       person-hair-color,
       person-hair-color-setter,
       clear-person-hair-color,

       <person-address>,
       person-address-email,
       person-address-email-setter,
       clear-person-address-email,

       // TODO: enums aren't finished yet
       <person-hair-color>,
       $person-hair-color-unknown,
       $person-hair-color-black,
       $person-hair-color-blonde;
   end module;

2.  :file:`abc.dylan`, the main generated code.

.. code-block:: dylan

   Module: abc

   define primary class <person> (pb/<message>)
     slot person-name :: <string>,
       init-keyword: name:,
       init-value: "";
     slot person-id :: <int32>,
       init-keyword: id:
       init-value: 0;
     slot person-address :: false-or(<person-address>),
       init-keyword: address:,
       init-value: #f;
     slot person-hair-color :: <person-hair-color>
       init-keyword: hair-color:,
       init-value: $person-hair-color-black;
   end class;

   define primary class <person-address> (pb/<message>)
     slot person-address-email :: <string>,
       init-keyword: email:,
       init-value: "";
   end class;

   define enum <person-hair-color> ()
     $person-hair-color-unknown :: <int32> = 0;
     $person-hair-color-black   :: <int32> = 1;
     $person-hair-color-blonde  :: <int32> = 2;
   end;

Create protobuf objects by passing initargs to :drm:`make` or by using setter
methods.

.. code-block:: dylan

   let p = make(<person>,
                name: "John Doe",
                id: 123,
                address: make(<person-address>, email: "a@b"));

or

.. code-block:: dylan

   let a = make(<person-address>);
   a.person-address-email := "a@b";

   let p = make(<person>);
   p.person-name := "John Doe";
   p.person-id := 123;
   p.person-address := a;

Note that for the inner message "Address", the class name is
``<person-address>``, reflecting the nesting of the messages. This is necessary
to avoid conflicting with a top-level message named "Address".

Similarly, the slot getter/setter for the inner class must be prefixed with the
name of the outer class to reduce the possibility of name conflicts, so we have
``a.person-address-email``.

But notice that when passing initargs there is no possibility of conflict so
simply ``email:`` will work. This is because protobuf messages are Plain Old Data
objects and do not inherit from other message types.

To write/read a ``Person`` to/from a byte buffer or binary stream:

.. code-block:: dylan

   let person = decode(<person>, buffer-or-stream);
   let nbytes = encode(person, buffer-or-stream);

To write/read a ``Person`` to/from a Text Format stream:

.. code-block:: dylan

   let person = decode-text-format(<person>, buffer-or-stream);
   let nbytes = encode-text-format(person, stream);
